H E A D I N G  :  Romans vii. 21—viii.  8 ; cf.  vii.  14  
and viii.  9.  
A  Body  of  Sin and Death 
Romans  vi.  deals with  the " body of  sin " 
(vi. 6 ) : Romans  vii,  deals  with  " the  body  of  
this  death  "  (vii.  24) I n chapter  vi.  the  whole  
'question before us  is  sin  : in  chapter  vii  the  
whole  question  before  us  is  death. What  is  the  
difference  between the  body  of sin and the  body  
of  death  ?  I n regard to  sin,  that  is, that  which  
displeases  God, I  have  a  body  of  sin ;  a  body,  
that is, which is actively  engaged in sin  :  but in 
regard  to  the  law  of  God,  that  is,  that  which  
expresses  the will of God,  I have a body of death. 
My-activity  in  regard to  sin  makes  my  body  a  
body  of  sin :  my  inactivity  in  regard to  God's  
will  makes  my  body  a  bod}'' of  death. In regard 
to all that is wicked, worldly and Satanic, I have 
arbody of sin  ;  but  in regard to  all that  pertains 
to  holiness and heaven and God I have a body of 
death. 
Have you  discovered the  truth of that in your 
life  ? I t  is  no  good  'merely  to discover  it  in  
Romans  vi  and  vii. Have  you  discovered  that  
you carry  the  dead  weight of  a  dead  body  in  
regard  to  God's will  ? You have  no  difficulty  in  
speaking  about  worldly  matters,  but  when  you  
try  to  speak  for  the  Lord  you  are  tongue-tied ; 
when you  try to  pray you  feel  sleepy,  when  you  
try  to  do  something  for  the  Lord,  you  feel  un-
well. You  can  do  anything  but  that  which  is  
related to  God's will. There is something  in this 
bodv  that  does  not  harmonize  with  the  will  of  
God". 
The Divinely  Intended  Issue  of  the  Discovery  
What  does 'death  mean  ? We  may  illustrate  
from  a well known verse in the first letter  to  the  
Corinthians. " For this  cause  many  among  you  
are weak and  sickly,  and not a few sleep " 
(I  Cor. xi.  30). Death  is  weakness  produced  to  
its extremity—weakness,  sickness, death. Death 
means utter weakness, weak to  such a point that 
you  can become no weaker.  That  I  have a  body  
of  death  in  relation  to  God's  will  means  that  I  
am  so  weak in relation to  serving God,  so utterly 
weak,  that  I  am reduced to  a point  of dire help-

lessness. " 0 wretched  man  that  I  am !  who  
shall  deliver me out  of the  body of this death  ? " 
cried  Paul  :  and it is good when an}T
one cries out 
as  he  did. There  is  nothing  more  musical in  the  
ears  of  the  Lord. This  cry is  the  most spiritual 
and  the  most scriptural cry a man can utter.  He  
only  utters  it  when  he  knows  he  can do  nothing  
and ceases to  make  any  further resolutions.  Up  
to this  point, every time he failed he made a new 
resolution  and  doubled  and  re-doubled  his Anil-
power. At last  be discovers there is no use in his 
making  up  his  mind  any  more, and  he  cries out 
145 Austins-Sparks.Net - AWAT Volume 19 - Searchable
in  desperation.  " 0  wretched  man  that  I  am  !  "  
He has come to a point  where he despairs of him-
self. Have  you  despaired  of  yourself,  or do  yon  
still  hope  that  if  you  read  and  pray  more  you  
will  be a better  Christian  ?  Reading and prayer 
are  not  wrong,  but  it  is  wrong  to  trust  in  them  
for  victory. Our trust  must  be  in  Christ  alone.  
Happily  the  " wretched  man  ! ?
  does  not  merely  
deplore his wretchedness; he asks a fine 
question, namely, " Who can deliver me  ?  "  4 4
  Who  ? "  Hitherto he has looked  for a  4 4
  some-
thing  " :  now he looks for a  4 4
  Who  " !  Hitherto  
he  has looked  within for the  solution  to  his pro-
blem  : now  he  looks  for  a  Saviour  outside of 
himself. He  no  longer puts  forth self-effort  ;  
all his expectation  is now in Another. 
How  did  we  get  forgiveness  of  sins  ?  Was  it 
by  reading,  praying, almsgiving,  etc.  ?  No,  we  
looked  to  the  Cross,  believing  in  what  the  Lord  
Jesus had done :  and deliverance from sin is  on  
exactly  the  same principle as forgiveness  of sins. 
I n  tbe  matter  of forgiveness  we  look  to  Him on 
the  Cross :  in the  matter of deliverance we  look  
to Him in us.  I n regard to forgiveness  we depend  
on  what He has done :  in regard to  deliverance  
we depend on what He will do. B u t in regard  to  
both forgiveness  and deliverance our  dependence  
is on  Him alone. He is the  One who  does all. 
At  the  time  the  epistle  to  the  Romans  was  
written  a  murderer was  punished  in  a peculiar 
fashion. The  dead  bod}'  of  the  one  murdered  
was  tied  to  the  living  body  of  the  murderer;  
face to face, hand to  hand, foot to foot;  and the 
living  one  was  bound to  the  dead one  till  death.  
The  murderer  could  go  where  he  pleased,  but  
wherever  he  went  he -had  to  drag  the  body  of  
that murdered  man  along. Paul felt  himself  
bound  to  a  dead  body  and  unable  to  get  free.  
Wherever  he  went he  was  hampered  by this  
terrible dead weight. At last he  could bear it no  
longer  and cried,  " 0  wretched  man that  I  am ! 
who  Bhall  deliver  me  out of  the body of  this  
death  ? " But  his  cry  of  despair  is  followed  at  
once  by  a  song  of  praise. This  is the  answer  to  
his question—44
1 thank God through Jesus 
Christ  our Lord  "  (vii. 25). 
We  believe  that  justification  is  through  the  
Lord  Jesus  and  requires no  work  on  our p a r t ; 
but we  believe sanctification is  dependent on 
our own efforts. We believe  we can only  get  for-
giveness  by entire reliance on  the  Lord*; but we  
believe we  can  only  get deliverance by  doing  
something  ourselves. We fear if we  do  nothing,  
nothing will happen. After  salvation  the  old 
habit  of  doing  reasserts  itself  and  we  begin  our  
old  self-efforts again. Then  God's'word  comes  
afresh  to  us  : 4 i
  I t  is  finished  ". He  has  done  
everything  on  the  Cross  for  my  forgiveness  and  
He -is going  to  do  everything  in  me  for  my  de-
liverance.  I n both cases He is the doer.  The  first-
words  of  the  delivered  man  are very precious— 4 4 
1 thank  God ". I f  someone  gives  you  a  cup  
of  water,  vou  thank  that  person,  not  someone  
else. Why did Paul say, 4 4
  Thank God " ? 
Because  God  was  the  One  who  did  even-thing.  
Had it  been  Paul  who did it, he would  have saidr 
"Thank P a u l " . B u t he saw Paul was a 
" wretched man  M
 and that God  alone could 
meet his need  :  so he said,  4 4
  Thank  God ".  God  
wants  to  do  all, for  He  wants  all  the  glory. I f  

we do some of the  work, then  we will get  some of 
the  glory  ;  but  God  wants  it  all  Himself, so  He  
does  all the  work from  beginning  to  end. Paul 
explains  in the  first  nine  verses  of  chapter  eight  
how  we  obtain  deliverance  and  are  enabled  to  

live a holy life in the  world.  He shows it is all by 

the  Holy  Spirit.  
Position  and Experience 
I n  chapters five to eight  we have four  different  
aspects  of  things  in relation  to  the  Divine work 
of  God in redemption  :  chapter  v 4 4
  I n Adam " ; 
chapter  vi 4 4
  I n  Christ  " ; chapter  vii 4 4
  I n  the  
flesh " ;  chapter v i i i 4 4
  I n the  Spirit  ".  There are 
four  different principles  here  and  we  must  see  
clearly the relationship between  them. We have 
' I n  Adam "  over against 4 4
  I n Christ  ",  and  4 4
  I n the  flesh  " in  contradistinction  to 4 4
  I n  the  
Spirit  ". We think it  is  enough  to  be  in  Christ,  
but  we  must  also  be  in the  Spirit  (chap.  viii.  9).  
Here is  one of  the most important  points  in  
Christian  life.  
To  live  in the  flesh  is  to  do  something  out  of  
nryself. As  soon  as  I  live  in  the  flesh  I  get  the  
effect  of  all  that  is  in  Adam. Now  the  same 
applies  to 4 4
 I n  Christ  ". I n  Christ  my  old man  
is crucified, and in Christ 1 am 4 4
  blessed  with all 
spiritual  blessings  in  heavenly  places  ",  but  if  I  
do  not  live  in  the  Spirit,  then  my  life  may  be  
quite  a  contradiction  of  the  fact  that  I  am 4 4
 in 
Christ  " ;  for  what  is  true  for  me  as in  Him is 
not  expressed  in me. I  may recognize  that  I am 
in  Christ,  but  I  may  have  to  recognize  also  that  
my  old  temper  is very  much in evidence. What 
is'the trouble  ? I hold  the  truth  merely  ob-
jectively. But  what is  true  objectively  must  be  
146 Austins-Sparks.Net - AWAT Volume 19 - Searchable
made true subjectively, and that is brought about  
as I live in the Spirit. 1 cannot  live in water, only 
in air:  and Christ cannot  live in the flesh, He can 
only live in the  Spirit. Therefore if I  live in the  
flesh, I find what is " in Christ  " is in suspense.  
Why  have  we Romans seven  and eight  ?  Are 
not chapters five and six enough  ? Chapters  five  
and six show  our position  " I n Adam " and "  In 
Christ"  ;  and chapters seven and eight show our 
position " I n  the  flesh  "  and  " I n  the Spirit ". 
Though in fact  I  am in Christ,  yet  if I live in the 
flesh, that  is,  in  my  own  power,  then  in experi-
ence I shall find myself in Adam. I f  I  would have 
in  me  all that  is  in  Christ,  then  I  must  learn to  
walk  in the  Spirit.  
The Meaning of "Living in the Flesh" and 
"Living  in  the Spirit"  
The flesh is connected  with Adam ;  the  Spirit  
is  connected  with  Christ. For the  moment  we  
need  not  consider whether  we  are in Adam or in 
Christ,  but  let  us  ask  ourselves,  Am  I  living in 
the flesh or in the  Spirit  ?  I f we live in the flesh, 
we shall find all that is true  " in Adam " is true 
in us  :  if we live in the  Spirit,  then we shall  find  
all  that is true  " in Christ  " to  be true in us.  To  
live in the  flesh  simply means  that  we try to  do  
something  in our own  natural  energy. We read 
in the Word what God wants, and at once we set 
about  to  do  it. For instance,  when  we  discover  
in  God's Word that we must  be humble, instead 
of  casting  ourselves  in  utter  dependence upon 
the Lord we  immediately draw  ourselves to-
gether  and  determine  that  from  henceforth  we  
shall  always  try  to  be  humble  ; and  we  are  so  
earnest  about  it  that  we  imagine  that  we  are  
doing quite well, when, as a matter of fact we are 
missing  the  whole  point.  
Living  in  the  flesh  means  that  we  believe  we  
can do i t : consequently  we set out to try.  When  
we really know the corruption of our own nature, 
then  as  we  discover  Divine requirements  in  the  
Word  we shall never try to  meet them  ourselves  
but  will simply acknowledge  our utter  weakness  
and  say, "Lord,  I  cannot  do  it, and  I  refuse  to  
try. I f Thou  dost  not  do  it  in  and through  me,  
it  will  never  be  done". When we see that God 
requires  humility  of  us,  we  shall  no  longer  en-
deavour  to  be  humble,  but  simply  turn  to  the  
Lord and say, 4 4
  Lord, I myself cannot be 
humble, but I trust Thee to live out Thy  
humility  in me ". 
Living  in  the Spirit  means  that  I  trust  the  
Holy  Spirit  to  do  that  something  in  me  that  I  
cannot  do  myself. This  life  is  completely diff-
erent  from the life I would naturally  live  of 
myself. Each  time  I  am  faced  with  a  new  de-
mand from  the  Lord  1 look  to  Him to  do  in me  
what  He  requires  of  me. I t  is  not a  case  of  
tr}dng  but  simply of trusting. I f I  have  a  hasty  
temper,  impure  thoughts,  a  quick  tongue,  or a 
critical  spirit,  I  shall  not  do  the  least  thing  to  
change  m\-self,  but  look  to  the  Spirit  of  God to  
produce in me the  needed  puritj-,  or humility or 
meekness. I simply stand aside and let  God do it 
all  by  His Holy  Spirit. 
Some  of you  have  no doubt  had experience  of  
this  kind. You have  been  asked to  go  and see a 
friend,  and the friend was not  very friendly, but 
you  trusted  the  Lord  to  see  you  through. You 
told  Him before  you set  out  that in yourself you 
could  not  but  fail,  and  you  asked  Him  for  all  
that  was  needed.  • Then  you  did  not  feel  at  all 
irritated though your friend was very ungracious. 
On your  return  home you thought over the 
experience  and wondered how you  kept so calm, 
and  you  wondered if you  would  be just as calm 
next  time. You  were  amazed  at  yourself  and 
nought an explanation.  This is the  explanation : 
the Holy Spirit carried you through. Un-
fortunately  we only have  this kind  of  experience  
once  in  a  while  ; but  it  should  be  a constant 
experience. When the  Holy  Spirit  takes  things  
in  hand there  is  no  need  for  effort  on  our part. 
I t is  not  a  case  of clenching  your  teeth,  and  
thinking  you  have controlled yourself  beauti-
fully and have had a glorious victory.  No, where  
there  is  real  victory, there  is no  human effort  in  
it. The object  of temptation  is  always to  get  us  
to  do  something. Satan's  temptations are  not  
primarily to cause us  to do something parti-
cularly  sinful,  but  merely  to  cause  us  to  act  in  
our own energy,  and as soon as we step out  to  do  
something  he has gained  a victory over us.  I f we 
do  not  move,  if  we  do  not  come  out  into the 
realm of  the flesh, then he  cannot  get  us.  
During  the  first  three  months  of  the  present  
war  in  China  we  lost  a  great  number  of  tanks,  
and  so  were  unable  to  deal  with  the  Japanese  
tanks,  until  the  following  scheme  was  devised.  
A  single  shot  would  be fired at  a Japanese tank 
by  one  of  our men in ambush. After a consider-
able lapse of time the first shot  would be followed  
by  a  second  ; than  by  a  further  long  silence ; 
then by another shot  ; until  the tank driver,  
eager to locate the  source  of  the  disturbance,  
147 Austins-Sparks.Net - AWAT Volume 19 - Searchable
would  pop  his  head  out to  look  around. The 
next  shot  would  put  an  end  to  him. As long  as  
he  remained  under  cover  he  was  perfectly  safe. 
The  whole  scheme  was  devised  to  bring him out 
into  the  open.._ • 
Self  Wholly  Set  Aside  in  the  Divine  Provision  
The  Divine way  of  victory does not  permit  01  
our  doing  anything  at  all. Our victory lies  in  
hiding in Christ- and doing nothing, trusting Him 
to do absolutely  everything.  As soon as we move 
we  begin  to  lose ground. " For the  flesh  lusteth  
against the Spirit,  and  the Spirit against the 
flesh  "  (Gal.  v. 17). The  flesh doeiTnot fight 
against  us.  but  against  the  Holy  Spirit  :  there-
fore  we do nothing. What is the result  ?  " That 
ye may not  do the  thing that ye would  " (Gal.  v.  
17). What  is our natural  desire  ?  To sin. I f we 
let  the  Holy  Spirit  fight  against  the  flesh,  then  
we  shall  not  do  what  we  naturally  would  do ; 
that  is, we  shall not  sin. If*we live  in the  Spirit  
we  can just  stand  aside  and look  on  as  the  Holy  
Spirit  gains  new  victories  over  the  flesh  every  
day. The  Holy  Spirit  has  been  given  to  us  to  
take charge of this  business. The Cross has  been  
given  to  procure salvation for  us : the  Spirit has 
been  given  to  produce salvation in  us. Christ on  
the  Cross is the  basis of our salvation  :  Christ in 
the  Spirit  is  the  power  of  our  salvation. I f  we  
believe  more we should pray less and praise more. 
We  are  very  familiar  with  the words  of  the  
Benediction—" The love of  God the  Father,  the  
grace  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  the  com-
munion of the  Holy  Ghost ".  The love of  God is 
the  source  of  all spiritual blessing. The grace of 
our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  has  made  it  possible  for  
that  spiritual wealth  to  become  ours  ;  and  the  
communion of the Holy Ghost  is the means 
whereby it  is imparted to  us. Love  is  something  
hidden in the  heart of  the  Father. Grace  is that 
love  expressed in  the  Son. Communion  is  the  
irupartation  of  that  grace  by  the  Spirit. What 
the Father has devised for us, the Son has 
accomplished  for  us  ;  and  now  the  Spirit  com-
municates  it  to  us. So when  we  see  all that  the  
Lord  has  procured  for  us,  do  not  let  us  try*  to  
appropriate it by our  self  efforts, but let us 
truthfully  look  to  the  Spirit  to  impart it  to  us;  
for  our  Lord  has  sent  His  Spirit  for  this  very  
purpose,  that  He  may  communicate  all  that  is  
ours  in  the Lord  Jesus. 