R E A D I N G  :  Romans  vi. 1-5. 
The  kingdom  of  this  world is  not  the  kingdom  
of  God. The first  creation  has  become , {
  the  old  
creation and God is out for a second and " new 
creation  ". He  is  bringing  in  a  new  creation,  a  
new  kingdom,  and  a  new world,  and nothing 
of  the  old  creation,  the  old  kingdom,  or the  old  
world,  can  be  transferred  to  the  new.  
In  order  to  bring us  into  this  new  sphere God 
must  make  us  new creatures. Unless  we  are  
made anew  we  can  never  fit  into  the  new realm. 
'*  That  which is born of  the  flesh  is flesh " (John 
iii.  6 ) . However  educated,  however  cultivated,  
however  improved,  it  is  still flesh. Our  fitnes3  
for the new kingdom is determined by the 
creation  to  which  we  belong. Do  we  belong  to  
the  old  creation or the  new  "? Are we  born of  the  
flesh  or  of  the  Spirit  ? Our ultimate  fitness  for  
the  new  realm hinges  on  the  question  of origin. 
The  question  is  not  " good  or  bad ",  but  "  flesh  
or  Spirit  " ; " that  which  is  born of  the  flesh  is  
flesh ",  and  it  will  never  be  anything  else. That 
which  is  of  the  old  creation  can never  enter  the  
new kingdom. 
Once  we  really  see  what  God is  after—some-
thing altogether new for Himself—then we 
17 Austins-Sparks.Net - AWAT Volume 19 - Searchable
shall  see  clearly  that  we  can  never  bring  any-
thing  from  the old  realm  into  the new. God 
wanted  to. have  us  for  Himself,  but  He  could  
not  bring us  as  we  were into  that, which He had 

purposed  ;  so  He  first  did  away  with  us  by  the  
Cross  of Christ  and  then  by  the  Resurrection  
provided  a  new  life  for  us. Being  now  a  new  
creation  with  a  new  nature,  we  can  enter  the  
new  kingdom  and  the  new  world. The  Cross  
was  the  means  God  used  to  set  us  aside  alto-

gether,  and the  Resurrection the  means  He used 
to  impart  to  us  all  that  was  necessary  for  our  

life  in the  new  sphere. The greatest  negative  in  
the  universe  is  the  Cross,  for  with  it  God wiped 
out  everything  that  was  not  of  Himself; the 
greatest positive  in  the  universe  is  the Resur-
rection,  for  through  it  God brought  into  being  
all  He  wants  for  the  new  creation. The  Resur-
rection stands  at  the  beginning  of  the  new  crea-
tion. I t  is  a  blessed  thing  to  see  that  the  Cross  
ends  all  that  pertains  to  the  first  regime,  and  

the  Resurrection introduces  all that  pertains  to  
the  second. Even-thing that  had  its  beginning 
before  resurrection must  be  wiped  out. Resur-
rection  is  God's new  starting  point.  
We  have  now  two  worlds  before  us,  the  new  
and the old. I n  the old Satan  has absolute 
dominion. You  may  be  a  good  man  in  the  old  
creation,  but  as  Jong  as  you  belong  to  the  old  
you  are  doomed  to  the  Cross  ; because  nothing  
of  the  old  can  be  transferred to  the  new. The 
Cross  is  God's  declaration  that  all  of  the old 
creation  must  die. Nothing  of  the old  Adam  
can  pass  beyond  the Cross  ;  it  all  ends  there.  
The  sooner we  see that  everything  we  derive  
from  Adam  has  gone  to  the Cross,  the better. 
By  the Cross,  God  has  made  a  way  of  escape 
for  us  from  the  old  creation. God  gathered  up  
in  His  Son  all  that  was  of  Adam  and  crucified  
him  ;  so  in Him all that  was of  Adam was done 
away. God  made a  proclamation throughout 
the universe—Through the  Cross T have crucified 
all  that  was  not  of  Me. You who  belong  to  the  
old  creation  have  all  been  crucified  with  Christ.  
"  Or  are  ye  ignorant  that all  we who  were  
baptized  into Christ Jesus  were  baptized into 
his death  ?  We were  buried, therefore  with him 
through  baptism  into  his death  " (Rom. vi. 3-4). 
What is  the meaning  of  baptism  ? I t  is  not 
just  a  question  of  a  c up of  water,  nor  even  of a 
baptistry  of  water. Baptism  is  a tremendous 
thing,  for  it relates  both  to  the  Cross  and  to  the  
Resurrection of our Lord. Peter in his  first 
epistle  refers to  baptism  as the  answer of a good 
conscience  toward God (1 Peter iii. 2 1 ) . Now  we  
cannot  answer without  being  spoken  to. I f God 
had said  nothing, we  should have nothing to 
answer. But He has spoken  :  He  has spoken  to  
us  by  the  Cross. B y  the  Cross  He  has  told  of  
His  judgment  of  us,  of  the world,  of  the old 
creation  and  of  the  old  kingdom; The  Cross  of  
Christ  is not  just an individual Cross,  but  a cor-
porate Cross,  an  all-inclusive  Cross. God  has  
put  us  all into  His Son  and  crucified  us in Him. 
I n  the  last Adam,  He has wiped  out  all that  was  
of  the  first  Adam. Now,  what  is  my  answer  to ! 
God's  verdict on the  old  creation  ?  I  answer by 
asking  for  baptism. Why  ? I n  Romans  vi.  4  
Paul  explains  that  baptism  means  burial. Bap-
tism is  connected both with  death  and  resur-
rection  ; but  in  itself  it is  neither  death  nor 
resurrection,  it  is  burial. B u t who  are qualified  
for  burial  ?  Only the  dead. So if I  ask for  bap-
tism  I  proclaim nvyself dead  and  only fit for  the  
grave. My  request  for  baptism  means  that I 
say  " Yes " to  the  death  to  which God has com-
mitted  me. I  say, " L o r d ,  I  believe  you  have  
done the  crucifying, now  I  ask for the  bmying."  
He  has  consigned  me  to  death,  I  ask to  be  con-
signed  to  the  grave.  
I n China  a  woman  lost  her  husband,  but  she  
flatly  refused  to  have  him  buried. Day  after  
day for a fortnight  he lay in the  house. She said, 
"  He is not dead ;  I talk with him every night ". 
She  was  unwilling  to  have  him  buried,  because  
she did  not believe him  dead. When  are  we  
willing  to  bury  our  dear  ones  ? Only  when  we  
are  absolutely  sure that  they  have  passed  away,  
While  }*ou  have  the  tiniest  hope  that  the}* are 
alive you  will never bury them. When will J  ask  
for  baptism  ? When  I  see that God's  way is 
perfect,  when  I  recognise  that  I  desen-e  to  die,  
and  when  I  truly  believe  that  God  has  already  
crucified  me. Once  I  am  fully  persuaded  that,  
before God,  I  am  quite  dead  then  I  apply  for  
baptism. I say in effect, , ;
  Praise the  Lord,  I am 
dead. Lord,  you  have  slain me,  now  I  desire  to  
be put in the  grave  ".  I n China  we have a " Red 
Cross  ",  and  a  " Blue  Cross  " ; the  first  deals  
with  those  who  are  still  alive,  and  the  second 
with those  who  are  already  dead—those  who  
have  died  in  famine,  flood,  or  war. The  Lord  
has given us a " Red Cross  "  and a ' Blue 
Cross and  we must accept both. God  has  
done  the  work  of  crucifying,  but  we  must  seal  
that  death  bv  burial.  
I S Austins-Sparks.Net - AWAT Volume 19 - Searchable
1 
There  is  an  old  world  and  a  new  world,  and  
between  the two there is a tomb. God  has  
alread}*  crucified  me,  but  I  must  consent  to  be  
consigned to that tomb. My burial confirms 
God's  sentence  passed  upon  me  in  the  Cross  of  
His  Son. I t  cuts  me  off  from  the  old  world and 
prepares me for the  new. So  baptism  is no small 
thing. Paul,  in effect,  says,  " I f you  could  con-
tinue  in  the  old  world, why  be  baptized  ?  You  
should  never  have  been  baptized  if  you  meant  
to  live  in  the  old  realm Baptism  makes  the  
ground  clear  for  the  new  creation  by  seeing  to 
the  burial of the  old creation. Paul  still referring 
to those who have been baptized, speaks of 
being  " united  with  him  in  the  likeness  of  his  
death  "  (Rom. vi.  5). B y  baptism  Ave  acknow-
ledge union  Avith Christ  in  His  death. 
One  day  I  Avas talking  Avith a  brother  on  this  
subject,  but  he  could  not see the truth. We 
happened  to  be  drinking tea  together,  so  I  took  
a  lump  of  sugar  and  stirred it  into  the  tea. A 
couple  of  minutes  later  I  asked,  " Can you  tell  
where  the  sugar  is  now  and  Avhere the  tea  ?  "  < s
  No  ",  he  said,  " they  are  both  become  one  
So  the  real  meaning  of  baptism  is  that  Ave are 
baptized  into  the  death  of  Christ,  so  that  His  
death  becomes  ours  and  ours  His. Our  death  
and  His  are  so  closely  identified that  it  is  im-
possible  to  distinguish  between  them. My bap-
tism is my admission that the  death of Christ is a 
mighty  all-inclusive  death,  might}*  enough  and  
inclusive  enough  to  destroy  everything  that  is  
not  of God. 
Resurrection  unto Newness of Life 
Now  resurrection  is  quite  different. I  enter  
into His  death, but I do not enter into His  
Resurrection.  Praise the  Lord  !  His resurrection 
enters  into  me,  and so  I  get  new  life. The death 
of  the  Lord  is 5 <
  I  in  Christ  " ;  the resurrection  
is " Christ  in me  ".  How  is it  possible  for  Christ  
to communicate His  resurrection-life to me ? 
How  do  I  receiA*e this  new  life  ? I n  A*erse  fiVe  
Paul answers  our  question Avith  a  very  good  
illustration. The  Avord  " united  " in  the  Greek  
is grafted and we haA-e  a ver}*  beautiful  
picture here of the life of Christ which is imparted 
to us  through  His  resurrection. I n  Fukien I 
once  visited  a  man  Avho owned  an  orchard. He 
had  three  or four  acres of  land, and  about  three  
hundred  fruit  trees. I  enquired  if  his  trees  had  
been  grafted, or  if  they were  just  the  original  
stuck. " Do  you think  *',  he  replied,  ';
 that I 
Avould waste my land growing ungrafted trees  ?  "  
I  asked  him  to  explain  the  process  of  grafting,  
which  he  gladly  did. " When  a  tree  has  grown  
to  a  certain  height  I  lop  off  the  top  and  then  
graft  it he said. Pointing  to  a special tree,  he  
asked, " Do  you see  that tree  ? I call  it  the  
father tree, because all the other trees are grafted 
from  that  one. I f the  other  trees  Avere just  left  
to  follow  the  course  of  nature,  their fruit would 
be  about  the  size  of  a  raspbeny,  and  it  would  
consist  mostly  of  thick  skin  and  seeds. This 
tree from which they are grafted  bears a luscious 
fruit,  the  size  of a plum, Avith very thin skin and 
tiny seeds ".  " How does it happen  ? ", I asked. 
"  I  simply  take  a  little  of  the  nature  of the  one  
tree  and transfer it to  the  other he explained. 
" I  make  a  cleaAr
age  in  the  poor  tree  and insert 
a  slip  from  the  good  one,  then  bind  it  up  and  
leave  it  to  grow  ". " But  how  can  it  grow  ?  : ; 
I asked. " I  don't knoAv he  said,  " But  it  
does grow  ". Then  he showed  me  a tree bearing 
miserably  poor  fruit  below  the  graft  and  rich  
juicy  fruit  above. How  can  one  tree  bear  the  
fruit  of another  ?  How  can an old tree bear new 
fruit  ? How  can  a  poor  tree  bear  good  fruit ? 
By  grafting. Then  if  a  man  can  graft  a branch 
of  one  tree  into  another,  cannot  God graft  the  
life  of  His  Son  into  us ? 
A  Chinese Avoman burned  her  arm badly and 
was  taken  to  hospital. I t  was  found  necessary  
to  graft  some  neAv skin  OA*er the  injured  area,  
but the doctor attempted in  vain  to graft a 
piece  of her own skin on  to  the  arm ;  it  was  too  

poor. A  foreign  nurse  offered a  piece  of  skin,  
and the operation Avas  thoroughly successful. 
The  new  skin  knit  to  the  old,  and  the  woman  
left hospital with her arm perfectly healed ; 
but  there  remained a  patch  of  white  skin on her 
yellow  arm to  tell the  tale  of  the  past. You ask 
hoAv the  skin  of  another- grew  on  that  woman's  
arm  ?  I  do  not  know  how  it  grew,  but  I  know  
that it  did  grow. I f  an  earthly  surgeon  can  
graft  a piece  of skin from  one  human body  on  to  
another, cannot  the Divine  Surgeon  graft the 

life  of  His  Son  into  me  ? I  do  not  knoAv how 
it  is  done,  but  it  is  done. We  can  do  nothing,  
and  we  need  do  nothing,  for  God  has  already  
done  everything. 
God  has  done  everything. There  is  only  one  
fruitful life in the Avorld and that has been 
grafted into millions  of other lives. We call 
this  the  new  birth. New  birth  is  the  rece2>tion  
of a  life  which I did  not  possess  before. It is not  Austins-Sparks.Net - AWAT Volume 19 - Searchable
that my life has been changed at a l l ; it is 
another life,  a life  altogether  new and  altogether  
Divine,  which has  become my  life. God has  cut  
off the  old  creation  by the  Cross of His Son, and 
my  baptism  is  my  recognition  of that  fact.  
The  Reckoning  of Faith  
The  normal  Christian  life,  initially  and  pro-
gressively, is  by faith  in  the Cross  of Christ. 
But  what  is  faith  ? Faith  is  my  acceptance  of  
God's  fact. Faith  always  relates  to  the  past ; 
anything  that  relates  to  the  future  is  not  faith,  
it  is  hope.  
Mark xi. 24 explains the  nature of faith. 4 4
 All 
things  whatsoever  ye  pray  and  ask  for,  believe  
that  ye  Jiave  received  them,  and  ye  shall  have  
them I f  you  believe  you  already  " have  re-
ceived  "  your  requests,  then  you " shall  have  
them  ".  To believe  that you  may get  something,  
or  that  you  can  get  it,  or  even  that  you  shall  
get  it, is not  faith. This is faith—to  believe  that  
you  have already got  it. Only that  which relates 
to  the  past  is  true  faith. Those  who  say, 4 4
 God 
can  ",  or 4 4
  God  may  ",  or 4 4
  God  must", or 4 4
  God shall ",  do  not  necessarily  believe  at all. 
Faith  always  says, 4 4
  God  has  done  it 
Then  when have  I  faith  in regard to  my  cruci-
fixion  ?  Not  when  I  say  God can crucify  me, or 
will  crucify  me,  but  when  with  joy  I  say, praise 
God,  in  Christ  1  am  crucified.  Temptation may 
come and Satan may try to  prove I am not dead, 
but  once  I  see  that  I  am  crucified with  Christ  I  
can laugh in the face  of temptation. The trouble 
with  many  is  that  as  soon  as  temptation  comes  
they begin to ask; 4 4
  Have  I really  died  ?  "  
The}* believe  Satan's  lies  and  deny  God's truth. 
God has said that when Christ died I  died, and I 
bank  everything  on  His word. I t is  done,  there-
fore  there  is nothing  for  me to  do,  but merely to 
see  this  as  an eternal fact. 