R E A D I N G  :  Romans  7. We  are  apt  to  feel  that  
Romans seven  is in the  wrong place. We would 
like to put it between the fifth and sixth chapters. 
After  chapter six all is so perfect  and then comes 
a  complete  breakdown in  chapter  seven. What 
is  its  teaching  then  ? Chapter  six  deals  with  
freedom from sin : chapter  seven deals  with  
freedom  from  the  law. I n chapter  six  Paul  has  
told  us how  we  could  be delivered from  sin, and 

we concluded that this was all that was required. 
Chapter  seven  now  teaches  us  that  deliverance  
from  sin  is  not  enough,  but  that  we  also  need  
deliverance  from  the  law. I f  we  are  not  fully  
emancipated  from  the  law  we  can  never  know  
full emancipation  from  sin. But  what  is  the  
difference between deliverance from sin and 
deliverance from  law  ?  WT
e all know  the  mean-
ing of deliverance from sin, but  we need  to know  

the  meaning  of  the  law.  if  we  are  to  appreciate  
our  need  of  deliverance  from  it.  
Romans  Seven  and  Man's  Total  Incapacitation  
Many a Christian is truly saved  and yet bound  
by  sin. Not  that  he  is  necessarily  living under 
the  power  of  sin  all the  time,  but  there  are cer-
tain  sins  hampering him  continually,  so  that  he  
commits the same sins over and over again.  One  
day  he  hears  the.  full  Gospel  message,  that  the  
Lord  JesuB  not only  died  to cleanse away  our  
sins,  but  that  when  He  died  he  included  us  in  
His death;  so  that  not  only  are  our  sins  dealt  
with,  but  we  ourselves  are  dealt  with too. The 
man's eyes are opened,  and he  knows he has  been  
crucified  with  Christ. Two  things  immediatety  
follow that  revelation. I n  the  first  place  he 
reckons that  he has died and risen with the  Lord,  
and  in the  second  place  he  yields to the  claims of 
the Lord. He  sees  he  has  no  more  right  over  
himself. This is the  commencement  of a beauti-
ful  Christian life  full  of  praise to  the  Lord.  
But  then  he  begins to  think  like this  :  I  have  
died with  Christ  and I  am raised with Him, and 
I  have  given  myself  over  to  H i m for  ever  :  now  
I  must  do  something  for  H i m since  He has done 
so  much  for  me. I  want  to  please  Him and  do  
His will. So  after  consecration  he  seeks  to  dis-
cover  the  will  of  God and  sets  out  to  obey Him. 
Then  he makes a strange  discovery.  He  thought  
he  could  do  the  will  of  God and  he  thought  he  
loved it, but  gradually  he  finds  he  does  not  
always like it. At times  he  even finds a distinct 
reluctance  to  do  i t ; and  often  when he tries  to  
do  it,  he  finds  he  cannot. Then  he  begins  to  
query  his  experience. He  asks  himself,  Did  I  
really  know  ? Yes !  Did  I  really reckon  ? Yes ! 
Did I  really  yield  ? Yes ! Have  I  taken  back  
my consecreation  ? No  !  Whatever is the matter 
now  ?  The more  this  man tries  to  do  the  will  of  
117 Austins-Sparks.Net - AWAT Volume 19 - Searchable
God  the  more  he  fails  to  do  it. Ultimately  he  
comes  to the conclusion  that  he  never  really  
loved God's  will  at  a l l : so he  prays  for  the 
desire  and the  power  to  do  it. He  confesses his  
disobedience and promises never to disobey 
again. But he  has barely got  up from  his  knees  
when he has fallen once more  ;  before  he reaches 
the  point  of  victory  he  is  conscious  of  defeat.  
Then  he  says  to  himself, Perhaps  my  last  de-
cision was not  definite  enough. This  time  I  will  
be  absolutely  definite. So  he  brings all his  will-
power  to bear  on  the situation, only to  find  
greater  defeat  than  ever awaiting him after  the  
first  temptation. Then  he  echoes  the  words  of  
P a u l : " For I  know  that  in  me,  that  is, in  my 
flesh, dwelleth  no good thing  :  for  to  will is pre-
sent with me, but to do that which is good is not. 
For  the  good which I  would  I  do  not: but  the  
evil which I would not, that I practise" 
(Romans vii.  18-19).  
The  Meaning and the  Purpose  of  the Law 
Many  Christians  are  suddenly  launched  into  
the  experience  of  Romans  vii. and they  do  not  
know  why. They fancy  Romans  vi.  is quite 
enough. Having  seen  that  clearly,  they  think  
there  can  be  no  more  question  of  failure,  and  
then to  their utmost  surprise they  suddenly find 

themselves  in Romans vii.  What is the explana-
tion  ?  They  do  not  know  deliverance from law. 
What is the meaning of law  ?  Grace means that 
God  does  something  for  me  ;  law  means  that  I  
do  something  for  Him. God  wants  me  to  do 

something  for Him, so  He makes demands  upon  

me. That  is  law. Now  if  law  means  that  God  
demands something of me, then deliverance 
from  law  means  that He  demands  nothing  of  
me. Law implies  that  God  requires  me  to  do  

something for Him ; deliverance from law 

implies  that  He  exempts  me  from  doing  any-
thing for  Him.  I need  do nothing  for God :  that  
is deliverance from  law.  The trouble in Romans 
vii.  is  that  the  man  here  tried  to  do  something  
for  God.  As soon as you  try to  please  God, then 
you are under the law.  When a man sees clearly 
that  he  is  delivered  from  the  law,  then  he pro-
claims,  I  will  not  try  to  do  anything  for God. 
What a  doctrine  ! What  awful  heresy  ! But 
deliverance from  the  law means  just this,  that  I  

cease  trying  to  please  God. God  knows  who  I  
am. He  knows that  from  head  to  foot  I  am  full  
of  sin,  He  knows  I  am  weakness  incarnate. He 

knows  T can  do  nothing:. The  trouble  is  / do 
not  know  it. I  admit  that  all  men  are sinners, 
and that therefore  I am a sinner ;  but I imagine  
that  I  am  not  such  a  hopeless  sinner  as  some.  
God must  bring us to  the  place  where we see  we  
are utterly weak and helpless. Whilst we say so, 
we do not wholly  believe it, and God has to bring 
us to  a point where we are fully convinced of the  

fact. Had  it  not  been  for  the  law  we  should  
never  have  known how  weak  we  are. The more 
we try to  keep the  law the  more our weakness  is  

manifest,  till  it  is  clearly  demonstrated,  to  our  
selves  as  well  as  to  God, that  we  are  hopelessly  
weak. God knew  it  before,  but  we  did not,  and  
so God  had  to bring  us  through painful  ex-

periences  to  a recognition  of  the  fact. We need  

to  have  it  proved  to  ourselves  beyond  dispute  

that  we  are  hopelessly  weak. That  is  why God 
gave us the law. 
God  never  gave  us  the  law  to  keep,  He  gave  
us the law to break !  He knew we could not  keep  
it. Nowhere  in the  New  Testament does it  say,  
The  law  was  given  to  be  kept; but  it  does say 
that  the  law  was  given  so  that  there  should  be  
transgression. " T h e  law came in...that the 
trespass  might  abound  " (Rom. v.  20). The law 

was  given  to  make  us  law  breakers ! Alas,  we  
are  so  conceited,  we  think  ourselves  so  strong,  
that  God has to  give us something  to  prove how  
weak, we are.  At last we see it and confess,  I am a 
sinner through and through, and I can do 
nothing  whatever  to  please  God. The law  was  

not  given  that  we  should  keep  i t : it  was  given  

that  we  should  break  i t ; and  when  we  have  
broken  it  so  completely  that  Ave are  convinced  
of  our  utter  need,  then  the  law  has  served  its  

purpose. I t  has  been  our schoolmaster  to  bring  

us to Christ, that He may keep it in  us.  
The Fulfilment of the Law  and Will  of  God by the 
Indwelling Cfhrist 
Deliverance from  the  law does not  mean  that  
we  arc free  from  doing  the  will  of  God,  but that 
we  are free  from  doing  it  as  of  ourselves. From 
henceforth  Another does  it  in  us. Once we are  
fully  persuaded  that  we  cannot  do  God's  will,  
then  we refuse  to  try. From  henceforth,  if any-
thing is done the  Lord  must  be the  One to  do it. 
Unfortunately, some of  us,  even knowing  we 
cannot  keep  the  law,  still  try  to  keep  it,  and  
God  has to  bring us to  the  point  of utter despair 
in  ourselves,  so  that  we  cease  even  to  try. De-
liverance from  the  law  means,  Henceforth  I  will  
never  do  anything  to  please  God.  That  does not 
I I S Austins-Sparks.Net - AWAT Volume 19 - Searchable
mean  that  I  am going  to  be  lawless,  but  it  does  
mean  that  if  tbe  law  is  going  to  be  kept  it  will  
be  kept  by  Another,  not  by  me  of  myself.  
Let  me  illustrate  by  what  I  have  seen  in  my  
own  country. I n China,  some  bearers can  carry  
a load of  salt  weighing 120 kilos,  some even 
250  kilos.  Now along comes  a man who  can only 
c a n y  120  kilos,  and  here  is  a  load  of  250  kilos.  
He  knows  perfectly  well he  cannot  carry  it, and 
if  he  is  wise  he  will  say,  I  won't  touch  it  !  But  
the  temptation  to try is inbred in human nature, 
so  although  he  cannot  possibly  carry  it,  he  still  
tries. As  a  youngster  I  used  to  amuse  myself  
watching  ten  or  twenty of  these  fellows come 
along  and  try, though  every  one  of  them  knew  
they  could  not  possibly  manage  it. The  sooner  
we  give  up  trying  the  better,  for  if  we  occupy  
the  ground, then there is no ground for the  Holy 
Spirit. But  if  we  say,  I ' l l not  do  it,  I'll trust 
Thee  to  do  it in me. then  we  shall find ourselves 
carried  through  without  the  slightest effort on 
our part. 
I n  19231 met a famous  Canadian  evangelist.  
I  had  said  something  along  this  fine,  and  as  we  
walked  back to  his  home  together  he  remarked,  
" The  note  of  Romans  vii.  is  seldom sounded 
nowadays  ;  it  is good to  hear it  again.  The day 
I  was delivered from the law was a day of heaven 
on earth.  After being  a Christian for years I was 
still trying my best to  please  God ;  but the  more  
I  tried, the  more I failed. I regarded  God as  the  
greatest  demander  in  the  universe,  but  I  found  
myself  impotent to fulfil  the least of  His  de-
mands. Suddenly  one  day,  as  I  read  Romans  
vii..  light  dawned, and I  saw that  I  had not  only  
been delivered from sin, but from the law as well. 
In  amazement  I  jumped  up  and  said.  Lord,  are  
you  really  making  no  more  demands  on  me ? 
Then  I  need  do  nothing  more  for  You God's 
requirements have  not altered*  but  v.:e  are  not the 
07i.es to meet  them. Praise God, He is the  Lawgiver  
on  the  Throne, and  He  is  the  Lawkc>:.p>:r in  my  
heart. He  who  gave  the  law,  Himself  keeps  it.  
He makes the  demands,  but He also meets them. 
My  friend  could  well  jump  up  and  shout  when  
he discovered  he  had nothing  to  do,  and all who  
make  a  like  discovery  could  well  do  the  same.  
As  long  as  we  try  to  do  anything,  He  can  do  
nothing. It  is because  of  our trying that  we  fail,  
and  fail,  and  fail. God wants  to  demonstrate  to  
us that  wo  can do  nothing  at  all, and  till  that  is  
fully recognized our  disappointment*" and  dis-
illusionrnenis  will  never  erase.  
A brother  who was trying  to struggle into 
victory  remarked to  me,  I  do  not  know  why  I  
am  so  weak. The  trouble  with  you,  I  said*  is  
that  you  are weak  enough  not  to  do  the  will  of  
God,  but  you  are not  weak  enough  to  keep  out  
of  things altogether. You  are  still  not  weak  
enough  ; but  when  you are  reduced  to utter 
weakness  and are persuaded  you  can do  nothing  
whatever,  then  God will  do  everj-thing. We all 
need  to  come  to  the  point  where  we  say,  Lord,  
I  am  not  going  to  do  anything  for  Thee,  but  I  
trust  Thee to  do  everything  in me.  
A  Pointed  Illustration 
Once  I  was  staying  in  a  certain  place  with  
some  twenty other brothers. There was  in-
adequate provision for bathing in  the home 
where  we  stayed,  so  we  went  for  a  daily  plunge  
in  the river. On  one occasion  a  brother  had  
cramp  in  one leg  and  was  sinking  fast: so  I  
motioned to another brother, who was an 

expert  swimmer,  to  hasten  to  his  rescue. But 
he  made  no  move. I  grew  desperate  and called 
out, Don't  you  realize  the man  is  drowning ? 
And  the  other  brothers,  about  as  agitated  as I , 
shouted  vigorously  too. But our good swimmer 
still  made  no  move. Calm  and  collected,  he re-
mained  just where  he  was. Meantime the  voice  
of  the  poor  drowning  brother  grew  fainter  and  
his  efforts  feebler. I n  my  heart  I  said,  I  hate  
that man !  Think  of him letting a brother drown 
before  his very eyes and not  going  to  his rescue ! 
But  when the  man  was  actually sinking, with a 
few  swift  strokes  the  swimmer  was  at  his  side,  
and  both  were  soon  safely  ashore. When I  got  
an  opportunity  I  aired  my  views. I  have  never  
seen  any  Christian  who  loved  his  life  quite  as  
much  as  you  do,  I  said. Think  of  the  distress  
you  would  have  saved  that  brother  if  you  had  
considered  yourself  a  little  less  and  him  a  little  
more. But the swimmer knew his business 
better  than  I  did. Had  I  gone  earlier he would  
have  clutched  me  so  fast  that  both  of  us would  

have gone under, he said.  A drowning man can-
not be  saved till he  is  utterly  exhausted  and  
ceases to make the slightest effort to save 

himself. 
Do  you  see  it  ? When  w give  up  the  case,  
then  God will  take it up.  He is waiting till we are 
at  an  end  of  our  resource''  and  can  do  nothing  
more for ourselves. God has condemned  all that 
is  of  the  old  creation  and  consigned it  to  the 
Cross. I f wc trv to  do  anvthine ourselves  we are Austins-Sparks.Net - AWAT Volume 19 - Searchable
virtually  repudiating  the  Cross  of  Christ. God 
haB declared  us  to  be  fit  only  for  death. When 
we  truly  believe that,  then we  confirm  God s 
verdict  by giving up all our own efforts  to  please  
Him. Our "every effort  to  do  His will  is a denial 
of  His  declaration  in  the Cross of our utter 
worthlessness. Our continued  efforts  are  a mis-
understanding  on  the one hand  of God's  de-
mands,  and  a  misunderstanding  on  the other 
hand  of  the  source  of  supply.  
We  see  the  law  and  we  think  we  must  meet  
its demands, but we  need to remember that 
though  the  law  in itself is  all right, it  will  be all 
wrong if it  is  applied  to  the  wrong  person. The  
"  wretched  man  " of  Romans  vii. tried  to  meet  
the  demands  of  God's law himself,  and that  was  
the  cause  of his trouble.  The repeated  use  of the  
little  word  " I  " in Romans vii. gives the  clue  to  
the  failure. " To  will is present  with  me,  but  to  
do  that  which  is  good  is  not  "  (vii.  18). There 
was  a fundamental  misconception  in  this  man's  
mind. He  thought  God was asking him to  keep  
the  law,  so  of  course  he  was  trying  to  keep  it.  
But  God  was  requiring no  such  thing  of  him.  
What  was  the  result  ? F a r from  doing  what  
pleased  God, he  found  himself  doing  what  dis-
pleased  God.  I n his very efforts  to  do the  will of  
God he did exactly the  opposite of what  he knew 
to  be  God's  will.  
A  Summary of  Necessary Experience 
I n chapters six and seven we see three different  
crises a  Christian  must  pass  through if he would  
live the fife God purposed  he  should. Some pass 
through  all  three  at  once,  others  pass  through  
two  at once,  but most  only pass through one at a 

time.  We need not have these experiences  in the 
order  mentioned, but  some time or  other  we 
must have  all three. (1) There  must  be a funda-
mental revelation. (2) There must  be a believing 
which will spontaneously issue in  reckoning.  
(3)  There  must  come  an  hour  when  revelation  
and reckoning  issue in yielding,  and  we say, 
"  Lord  I  am  Thine,  utterly  and  for  ever. All I 
am  and have  I  hold  henceforth  only  as  a trust, 
from  Thee ". When  we  have passed  through  
these  three  crises  our  greatest temptation will 
be to try  to please God,  and  the more  con-
secrated  we  are the  greater  will  be  the  tempta-
tion. We  must  be  fully  convinced  that  we  can  
do nothing  whatever to  please  God, and that He 
is  asking  nothing  whatever  of  us. 