R E A D I N G  : Romans  vi.  12-23.  
The  revelation  of  our  death  in  the  Lord  is  a  
definite  thing. Many  of  us  could  give  the  date  
when  we  clearly saw that  Christ died for us, and 
we  should  be  equally  clear as  to  the  time  when  
we  saw  that  we  died  in  Christ. I t  should be 
nothing  hazy,  but  very  definite. I t  is  not  suffi-
cient  to  acknowledge  the  truth, we  must  see  it.  
The  fundamental  thing  is  a  revelation  of  our  
position  in  Christ  in  His  death,  and  a  definite 
reception  of His resurrection life. Tben we shall 
spontaneously reckon  ourselves  dead  in  Christ  
and  alive in Him.  Revelation is fundamental  to  
reckoning. With  man}?
  Christians  dying  looms  
ver}*  large  on  their  horizon ; the)*  are  always  
occupied  with  the  thought  of  their  death. B u t 
our death  with  Christ  is  not  future,  it  is past,  it  
is an accomplished fact. Whether we  experience  
it  or not.  the  fact  is  settled  and settled  for  ever.  
George  Muller  said,  " One  day  George  Muller  
died ! f 
: and  we  must  be  able  to  speak  of  our  
death  as definitely  as he did of his. This reckon-
ing  is  one of  the  steps  that  leads  us  into the 
normal  Christian life. The first step is revelation 
and  the  second is  reckoning. We  must  never  
reverse  the  order. Reckoning must  always have 
revelation  as  its  basis.  
The Point  at which  Consecration  Arises  
'* Let  not  sin  therefore  reign  in  your mortal 
bodv, that  ye  should  obev  the  lusts thereof: 
neither present  your members  as instruments  of  
unrighteousness  ; but  present yourselves unto 
God  as  alive  from  the  dead,  and your  members  
as instruments of righteousness unto God r
* 
(Rom.  vi.  12-13). We  are  dead  and  are risen : 
now,  on  the  basis  of  death  and  resurrection we 

must  yield  (present). From  verse  12 to  verse  23  
the most important word  is  " yield Many 
have  taken  this  word to  mean  consecration, and 
rightly so  ; but it is not consecration as we 
usually  understand  it. I t  is  not  consecration  in  
the  sense of  offering  talents,  gifts,  strength,  etc.,  
to  the  Lord  for  Him to  use. Note  this  clause in 
verse  13,  " as  alive  from  the  dead  ". The con-
secration here referred to  is not  the  consecration  
of anything  belonging  to  the  old  creation, but of 
that  which has  passed  through  death  into  resur-
rection. The yielding  here  spoken  of is  the  out-
come of knowing my old man crucified  and  
reckoning  him  to  be  so. Knowing, reckoning, 
yielding, that  is the  Divine order.  When I really 
know I  am  already  crucified,  then  I  spontane-
ously reckon  myself dead, and when I  truly  
reckon  myself  one  with  the Lord  in  death  and  
resurrection,  it  follows  that  I  will  yield to Him. 
He  is  the  source  of  my  life,  He  is  my  life  :  so  I  
cannot  but  yield  everything  to  Him, for  all is 
His,  not  mine. Without  passing  through  death  1  
have nothing  to  consecrate, and  there  is nothing 
God can accept, for  He has condemned all that is of 
the old creation to the Cross.  Death has cut off all  
that  cannot  be  consecrated  to  Him, and  resur-
rection has made  consecration possible. Yielding 
merely  means  that  I  consider  my  whole  life as 
belonging  to  the Lord.  
The Presenting of the Body an  All-inclusive  
Offering 
Let  us observe  that  this  yielding  is  in relation 
to  the  members  of  the  body. I  regard  all  my  
members as belonging  wholly to the  Lord.  I t is a 
great  thing  to  discover  I  am no  longer  my  own : 
1  am  the Lord's. I f  the fifteen kroner  in  nry  
pocket  belong  to  me,  then  I  have  full  authority  
over  them. But  if  they  belong  to  another  who  
has  committed  them  to  me  in  trust,  then  I  can-
not  buy  what  I  please  with  them  ;  and  I  dare  
not  lose  them. Real  Christian  life  begins  with  
knowing. That  results spontaneously  in  reckon-
ing, and that again leads to  yielding.  How many 
of  us  dare  not  use  our  own  time  or  money  or  
talents  as  we  would,  because  we  realise they are  
the Lord's,  not ours  1 How  many  of  us  have  
sueh  a  strong  sense  that  we  belong  to  Another  
that we dare not squander a kroner  of  our Austins-Sparks.Net - AWAT Volume 19 - Searchable
money,  or  an  hour  of  our  time,  or  any  of  our  
mental and physical powers  ?  No  one  can really 
lire  the  normal  Christian  life  without  yielding  
everything  to  the Lord. 
On  a  certain  occasion  a  Chinese  brother  was  
travelling  by  train  and  found  himself  together  
with  three  non-Christians who  wished  to play  
cards to  while  away the  time. Lacking  a fourth  
to  complete  the  game,  they  invited  this  brother  
to  join them. I  am  sorry to  disappoint  you,  be  
said,  but I  cannot join your game,  for  1 have  not  
brought  my  hands  with  me. Whatever  do  you  

mean  ? they  asked  in  blank astonishment. This 
pair  of  hands  does  not  belong  to  me,  he  said : 
and then followed  the explanation of the transfer 
of  ownership  that  had  taken  place  in  his  life.  
That  brother regarded the  members  of  his  body  
as  belonging  entirely  to  the  L o r d  : and  that  is  
true  holiness.  
Separated unto  the Lord—The  Lord's  Right Over 
His  Own  
Many  people  think  we  become  holy by  the  
eradication  of  something  evil  within. No,  any-
thing  can become holy  by  being  separated  unto  
God. I n  Old Testament  times,  if  a  man  wished  
to be altogether  the  Lord's, then he was anointed 
with oil and the  L o r d  sanctified him.  Thereafter  
he was regarded as set  apart to  the  Lord. I n the 
same  manner a lamb,  or the  gold  in the  temple,  
could  be sanctified  to  the  Lord. < ;
  Holiness  '! in 
the  original means  something  set  apart, and all 
true  holiness  is  " holiness  unto  the Lord  ". I 
give  myself  over to Christ; that is holiness. 
Yielding  means,  I  recognise  I  am  altogether  the  
Lord's. This  yielding  is  a  definite  thing  just as, 
definite  as  reckoning. There  must  be  a  day  in  
my  life  when  I  pass  out  of  my  own  hands  into  
His  hands,  and from  that  day  forward I  belong  
to  Him and  no  longer  to  myself. That  does  not  
mean  1 consecrate  myself  to  be  a  preacher or a 
missionary. Many  people  are  missionaries,  not  
- because they have consecrated themselves to 
God, but because they have not consecrated 
themselves  to  Him. Then  to  what  are  we  con-
secrated  ? Not to Christian  work,  but  to the 
will of God  ;  to  be and to  do  whatever He wants. 
David  had  inanv  mmhtv  men,  of  whom  some  
were generals  and  others  were  gatekeepers. We 
must be  willing  to  be either  generals  or  gate-
keepers  just  as  God  wills,  not  as  we  choose. I f  
you  are a  Christian,  then  God has  marked out  a  
pathway  for  you.,  a  " course : 
',  as  Paul  calls  it.  
Not only Paul's  path,  but the^path of  every  
Christian  has  been  clearly marked out  by God, 
and  it  is  of  supreme  importance  that  each  one  
should  know and  walk  in  the God-appointed 
course. " Lord,  I  give  myself to  Thee  with  this  
desire  alone,  to  know  and  walk in the  path  you  
have ordained ".  That  is true }ielding.  I f at  the  
close  of  a  life  we  can  say  with  Paul,  " I  have  
finished my  course  ", then we are blessed  indeed.  
There is nothing more tragic than to  come to  the  
end  of  life  and find we  have  been  on  the  wrong  

course. We have only  one  life  to  live down here, 
and  we  can  do  as  we  please  with  it. But  if  we  
seek  our own  pleasure  our life  will  never  glorify  
God. A  devoted  Christian  once  said,  " I  want  
nothing  for myself,  I  w ant everything for God ". 
Do  you  want  anything  apart from  God, or does 
all  vour  desire  centre  in  His  will ? 
Servant or Slave ? 
I f  we  yield  unreservedly unto  God, man}- ad-
justments  may  require to  be  made  ;  in  family,  
business, or church  relationships, or in the 
matter  of  our  personal  views. God  will  not  let  
anything  of  ourselves  remain. His  finger  will  
touch, point  by  point, even-thing  that  is  not  of  
H i m ,  saying,  This  must  go. Are  you  willing  ?  
I t is  foolish  to  resist  God,  and  always  wise  to  
yeild  to  Him. We  admit  that  many  of  us  still  
have  controversies  with  God. He  wants  some-
thing, while  we  want  something else. Many 
things we dare not look into, dare not pray about, 
dare not even think about, lest w^e  lose  our  
peace. We can evade  the  issue,  but  to  do  so  will  
bring  us  out  of the  will  of  God. I t  is  always an 
easy  matter  to  get  out  of  His  will,  but  it  is  a  
blessed thing just  to hand  ourselves over to 
H i m ,  and let  Him have  His way  with  us. How-
good  it is  to have  the consciousness that we 
belong  to  the Lord, and  we  are  not  our  own.  
There  is  nothing  more  precious in  all the  world.  
I t  is  that  which brings  the  consciousness  of His 
continual  presence,  and the  reason is  obvious. I 
must  first  have  the  sense  of  God's  possession  of  
me  before  I  can  have  the  sense  of  His  presence  
with  me. When this relationship  with the  Lord  
is  established,  then  we  dare  do  nothing  on  our  
own initiative,  for  we  are His  exclusive  pro-
perty. " Know ye not,  that  to  whom ye present  
yourselves  as  servants  unto  obedience, his  ser-
vants  ye  are  whom  ye  obey  ? "  (Rom.  vi.  10).  
The word here rendered servant  " really 
signifies  a  " bondservant a  slave. This  word  
51 Austins-Sparks.Net - AWAT Volume 19 - Searchable
used several times in the second half of 
Romans vi. What  is  the difference between 
servant and slave  1  A servant may serve 
another,  but  the  ownership  of  himself  does  not  
pass to  that  other. I f he  likes his master he can 
serve  him  ; but  if  he  does  not  like  him  he  can  
refuse to  serve him.  Not  so is it with a slave.  He  
is  not  only  the servant of  another,  he  is  the  
possession of  another. How  did  I  become the 

slave  of  the  Lord  ?  On His part He  bought  me,  
and  on  my part  I  yielded  myself  to  Him. B y 
right  of  redemption  we  are  God's property,  but  
if we would be  His  slaves  we  must  willingly  
yield  ourselves  to  Him, for  He  will  never  coerce  
us. 
The  Reality  of  the  Issue  
The  tragic  thing  about Christians  to-day is 
that  they  have  no  idea  what  God  is  asking  of  
them. How  glibly  they  say,  Lord,  I  am willing 
for  anything. Do  you  know  that  God is asking 
of you your very life ?  There are cherished ideals, 
strong  wills,  precious  relationships,  much  loved  
work that  will  have  to  go  :  so  do not  give your-
self  to  God  unless  you  mean  it. God  will  take  
YOU seriouslv, even if Y O U do not mean it 
seriously. When  the  Galilean  boy  brought  his  
bread to the  Lord,  what did the  Lord do with it ? 
He broke  it. God  will  always  break  what  is  
offered  to  Him. He  breaks  what  He  takes,  but  
after  He breaks it  He blesses  and uses it to meet 
the  needs  of  others. After  you  give  3*ourself  to  
the  Lord,  He  begins  to  break  what  was  offered  
to  Him. Everj-thing  seems  to  go  "wrong, and  
you  protest  and find fault  with the  ways of God.  
But  to  stay  there  is  to  be  no  more  than  just a 
broken  vessel; no  good  for  the  world,  because  
you  have  gone too  far for  the  world to  use  you,  
and  no good for  God because  }*ou have not gone 
far  enough  for  Him to  use  you. You are out  of  
gear with the  world, and you  have a controversy 
with  God. This  is  the  tragedy  of  many a  Chris-
tian. 
Our  yielding  to  the Lord must  be  a  funda-
mental  act. Then  day  by day  we  must  go  on  
jnelding to  Him, not finding fault with His ways, 
but  accepting  with  praise  even  what  the  flesh  
revolts against. When you stand on that 
ground, then you are truly yielded.  A sister once 
prayed,  " Lord,  this is very hard,  I  don't  like it, 
but  I  am  willing  to  break  my  heart  to  get  Thy 
heart  ". One day  I  prayed  with  a  brother  who  
could  not  get  through  in  prayer. At  length  he  
said,  " Lord,  1 don't  like it,  but  don't  give  in  to  
me. just wait a moment; I  will give in to  You ". 
The  normal Christian  life  begins  with  a  crisis,  
when  I  see  I  am  the  Lord's  and  thereafter  no  
longer reckon  myself to be my own, but in  
everything  recognise  His ownership and author-

ity . I  do  not  consecrate  myself to  be a mission-
ary,  I  consecrate  myself to  do  God's w i l l ; to  do  
His will in  school, office or  kitchen,  counting 
whatever  He ordains for  me  to  be the  very  best,  
for  nothing  but  good can come  to  those who are 
wholly  His.  
May we always be possessed by the con-
sciousness  that  we  are  not  our  own. 