R E A P I N G  : Romans  iii.  23  ; viii. 17-18,  21,  
2&-30  ; John  i.  14-1S  ; xii.  24  ; xx. 17 ; 
Genesis ii. 9,  16,  17  ;  Hebrews ii.  9-11.  
We have  spoken  of the  need  of revelation, the 
need  of  reckom'ng  and  the  need  of  yielding,  if  
we  are  to  know  the  normal Christian  life  ; but 
unless  we  see  the  objective  God has  in  view  we  
shall  never  clearly realize why  these three steps  
are necessary  to  lead us into  the fulness  God has 
prepared for  us. Before  therefore  we  consider  
further the question of  subjective experience, 
let  us  look  first  at  the  great  Divine  objective.  
What  is  God's purpose  in  creation,  and  what  is 
His  purpose  in redemption  ?  Tn Romans iii. 23 
we  read,  " All have sinned, and fall  short of  the  
glory  of  God ". God's  purpose  was  " glory ", 
but sin thwarted His purpose by  causing man to 
miss  His glory. When we  think  of the  question  
of  sin  we  instinctively  think  of  the  judgment  it  
brings  : we  invariably associate sin  with  con-
demnation and  hell The  thought of  man  is  
always of  the  punishment  that  will  come to him  
if  he  sins,  but  the  thought  of  God  is  always of  
the  glorv  he  will  miss  if  he  sins. The  result  of  
sin  is  that  we  miss  God's  glory  : the  result  of  
redemption is  that we  are  qualified  for  glory.  
God's  purpose  in  redemption  is  glory.  
"  Firstborn  Among  Many  Brethren  "  
"  For whom  he foreknew,  he also  foreordained  
to  be conformed  to  the  image  of his Son, that  be  
might be  the  firstborn  among  many  brethren  :  
and  whom he  foreordained,  them  he also  called : 
and  whom he.  called,  them he also justified : 
and  whom  he  justified  them  he  also  glorified  ".  
What  was God's objective That  His Son Jesus 
Christ might be " the firstborn  among  many 
brethren  ".  How did God realize His objective ? 
" Whom  be  justified,  them he  also glorified." 
God's purpose, then, in  creation and  redemption  
was to make His Son " the  firstborn  among 
many  brethren ". That  may  convey  very  little  
to  many  Christians,  but  let  us look  into  it more  
carefully. I n  John  i .  14,  we  see  that  the  Lord  
Jesus was God's only begotten Son:  "The Word 
became  flesh and dwelt among us (and we beheld 
his glory,  glory as of the  only begotten from the 
Father)". That  He was God's  only  begotten  
Son  implies  that  God had  no  other  Son but  this  
one. He  was with  the  Father  from all eternity.  
B u t God  was  not satisfied that Christ  should  
remain  the  only  begotten  Son,  He  wanted  also  
to  make  Him His first begotten. How  could an 
only  begotten become a first begotten Son  1 The 
answer  is  simple  : B y  the  Father  having more  
children. I f you  have  but  one  son, then he is the 
only  begotten,  but  if  thereafter  you  have  other  
children then the former becomes the first 
begotten. 
The  Divine  purpose  in  creation  and  redemp-
tion  was  that  God should  have  many children. 
He  wanted  us. and could not  be satisfied  without  
us. Some  time  ago  I  called  to  see  Mr. Cutting, 
the writer  of the well-known tract " Safety, 
Certaintv, and Eniovmcnt ". When I was 
ushered into  the presence of  this  old  saint  of  
ninety-three  years, he  took  my  hand in his, and 
in  a  quiet  deliberate  way  he  said,  " Brother, do 
you  know,  I  cannot  do  without  Him 1  And, do 
you  know,  He  cannot  do  without  me  ? " Then 
there  was  silence  for  a  few minutes,  and  again  
he said, as though he were returning  from  
90 Austins-Sparks.Net - AWAT Volume 19 - Searchable
another world. " Brother, do you  know I  cannot  
do without  Him  I  And do  you  know  He  cannot  
do without, me  \  " Again there  was silence,  and  
again  the" silence  was  broken  by  the  self  same  
words. I  was  with him for  over  an hour, but all 
I  heard was the  frequent  repetition  of these  two  
questions  :  " Brother, do you  know, I  cannot do  
without  Him  ? And  do  you  know  He  cannot  

do  without  me  ?  "  
I n  reading the  story of  the  Prodigal Son  most  
people  are  impressed  with  all  the  troubles  the  
prodigal  meets : they  are  occupied  in thinking 
what  a  very  bad  time  he  is  having. But that  is  
not the point  of the parable. ;
  "My son which was 
lost  is  now  found  "  : there  is  the  heart  of  the  
story. I t  is  not a  question of  what  the son 
suffers,  but  what  the Father  loses. He  is  the  
sufierer,  He  is  the  loser. A  sheep  is  lost. Who 
suffers  the  loss  ?  The shepherd. A  coin  is  lost.  
Whose is the  loss  ?  The woman's. A son is  lost.  

Whose  is  the  loss  ?  The Father's (Luke  xv). 
The  Lord Jesus  was  the  only  begotten  Son,  
and  as  the  only  begotten  Son  He  could  have  no  
brothers. But  God  is  going to do something 
whereby the  only  begotten may  also  be the first 
begotten, and  then  the Lord Jesus will have 
many  brethren. Here  is  the purpose  of  God,  
namely,  His  " bringing  many  sons  unto  glory " 
(Heb.  ii. 10). I n  Romans viii. 29 you have 
" manv  brethren  " : in  Heb.  ii.  10  vou  have  
" many  sons  ". From  the  point  of  view  of  the  
Lord  Jesus  it  is  " brethren " : from  the  point  
of  view  of  God, the  Father,  it  is  " sons  '".  Son-
ship  is  what  God  is  after. But  it  does  not  stop  
there  : God does not  want  His sons  to  live  in a 
barn,  or  a  garage,  or  a  field,  He  wants  them  to  
share  His  glory. That is the explanation of 
Romans  viii.  30  : **  whom  he  justified,  them  he  
also  glorified  **. God  wanted a  first  begotten  
Son  with  many  brethren. How  could  He bring  
that  about  ?  As to  the  sons  or brethren, it  is  by  
justifvins then'i and elorifving them. God 
wanted  to  have  sons,  and  He  wanted  these  sons  
in  glory. He  wanted  to  people the  whole  heaven  
with  sons. That  is  His  purpose  in  redemption.  
The Corn  of  Wheat  
But  how  could  God's  only  begotten  Son  be-
come His first begotten  ! The method is 
explained  in  John  xii.  24  : i(
 Verily,  verily,  I  
say  unto  you.  Except  a  grain  of  wheat  fall  into  
the  earth  and  die, it abideth by itself  alone ; 
but  if  it  die,  it  beareth  much  fruit  ". Who  was  
that  grain  ? I t  was  the Lord Jesus. I n  the  
whole universe God has only one grain of 
wheat; He  had  no  second  grain. God put  that  
one  grain of  wheat  into  the  ground  and it  died,  
and in resurrection  the only begotten grain  
became  the  first  begotten  grain,  and  from  the  
one  grain  also  there  have  sprung  many* grains. 
The  Lord  Jesus was  the  only  begotten  Son of 
God,  but  from  the  resurrection  to  all  eternity  
the  only  begotten is  also  the  first  begotten Son, 
and,  in  o?ie  aspect, His  fife  from  that  time is  
found  in  many  brethren. I t  was  by  means  of  
the  Cross that the only begotten became also  the  
first  begotten. Thus  the Father-heart of  God  
was satisfied,  for  He  has  secured  many  sons.  
The  first  and  the  twentieth  chapters  of  John  
are most precious. I n the beginning of his 
Gospel,  John  tells  us  that  Jesus  was  the only 
begotten  Son. At  the  end  of  his  Gospel he  tells  
us how  the  Lord  Jesus died  and  rose  again, and 
how  after  His  resurrection He  said,  " I  ascend  

unto my Father and your Father  "  xx. 17). 
Hitherto the  Lord had  spoken of  " My  Father", 
but  now He  has  died  and  risen,  so  He  says,  
" My Father and your Father  ". Why  ?  
Because He is now the  eldest  Son.  By His death 
and resurrection many brethren have been 
brough.  i:. o  God's family. 
The Choice  that Confronted  Adam  .  
God  planted  a  great  number  of  trees  in  the  
Garden of Eden, but " in the midst of the 
garden  ",  that  is,  in  a  place  of  special promin-
ence,  He  planted  two  trees,  the  tree  of  life  and  
the  tree  of  knowledge of  good  and  evil.  Adam  
was  created  innocent  ;  he  had no  knowledge  of  
good  and  evil. Think  of a  man  twenty  years  
old who has no sense of right and wrong ! 
Would  you  not  say  that  man  was undeveloped. 
Well,  that  is  exactly  what  Adam was. What  is  
the  meaning  of  those  two  trees  in  the  midst  of  
the  garden  ? Adam,  so  to  speak,  was  created  
morally  neutral ; neither  sinful,  nor  holy,  but  
innocent. God  put  two trees  in  the  garden  so 
that  Adam  could  exercise  independent choice : 
He could  choose  the tree  of  life, or  he could 
choose  the  tree  of  knowledge  of  good  and  evil.  
Now the knowledge of good and evil is not 
wrong. These  two  trees  typify  two  deep  prin-
ciples. They  represent two planes  of  life, the 
Divine  and  the  human. The  " tree  of life  "  is  
God  Himself,  for  God  is  life. He  is  the highest 
form  of  life,  and  He  is  also  the  source  and  goal  
<»1 Austins-Sparks.Net - AWAT Volume 19 - Searchable
of  life. I f Adam should  take  the  tree  of  life,  he  
would partake  of the life of God and thus 
become a son  of  God,  in the  sense of  having  the  
same  life  in him that  God has. I f Adam  should  
take of the fruit of the tree of knowledge  of good 
and  evil,  then  he  would  develop  bis  own  man-
hood merely along natural lines apart  from  
God  ;  for  he  would have  the  knowledge  of good 
and evil,  and consequently be able to form 
ivdependcnt judgment. So  thi&  was  the  choice  
that  lay  before  him,  either  to  become  a  son  of  
God, depending upon God  for his  life, or to 
become  a  self-centred  man,  judging  and  acting  
apart from God. 
Adam's Choice  the Reason  for the Cross 
Adam chose the tree of knowledge  of good and 
evil  and  thereby  took  up  independent  ground.  
The consequence was  death,  rather  than  life.  
There  were  two  planes  of  life  set  before  Adam,  
the  Divine  life  in  dependence  upon  God, or  the  
human life with its independent resources. 
Adam's choice  to develop his own manhood 
out  of relation  to  God was sin, because  he there-
by  thwarted  the  eternal  purpose  of God. He 
chose  to  be  a  man,  perhaps  a  very  good man, 
even a  perfect man,  but  the end was  death,  
because  he  had  not  the  life  of  God  in  him  as  
necessary  to  realize  God's  purpose  in his being.  
Thus  we  all  became  sinners,  subject  to  the  law 
of sin and death. 
Now  we  see  the  Divine  reason  for  the  Cross  
and  the  resurrection, and  we  see  too  the  Divine  
reason for  reckoning and for  yielding. We must 
all  go  to  the Cross,  because what  is  in  us  by-
nature is a  self-life. Adam chose a self-life 
rather than  Divine life,  so  God had to  gather  up  
all  that  was in Adam and  do  away  with  it.  Our  4 t
  old  man  " has  been  crucified. God has  put  us  
all  in Christ  and crucified Him as the  last  Adam,  
and  thus  all that  is  of  Adam  has'passed  away.  
Then  Christ  arose  in  a  new  form  ; with  a  body  
still, but  in  the Spirit,  no  longer  in  the  flesh.  
He has  a  resurrected  body, a  spiritual  body,  
glorious  body. Since the  Lord  Jesus  is  no  more  
in the  flesh.  He can now  be received  by  all.  The  
Jews revolted at the thought of eating His 
flesh and  drinking His  blood,  but  of  course  they  
could  not receive Him  then, because e  was  
still  in  the flesh. Now  that  He  is  in  the  Spirit,  
every  one  of  us  can  receive  Him,  and  it  is  by  
partaking  of  His  resurrection  life  that we  are  
constituted children of  God. God  is  not  out  to  
change  our  old  life. I t  is  not  His  thought to 
bring  it  to  a  certain stage of  perfection, for  it  is  
on a  totally  wrong  plane. On  that plane He 
cannot  now  bring man  to  glory  ;  He  must  have  
a  new man. 
What  it  Means  to  be  " In Christ" 
There  are  various  planes  of  life. The human 
life lies between the life of the  lower animals and 
the  life  of  God.  We  cannot  bridge  the  gulf that 
divides  us  from  the plane  above  or  the  plane  
below,  and  the  distance  that  separates  us from 
the  life  of  God is  vastly greater than that which 

separates  us  from  the  life  of  the  lower animals. 
L i  China  one  day I  called on a Mr. X .  He was 
a  very learned man, a doctor  of  philosophy, and  
a  man esteemed  throughout  the  whole  of  China  
for  his  high  moral  principles. But  he  did  not  
believe in the need of regeneration, he only 
proclaimed  a  social  gospel. When  I  called  on  
him  his pet  dog  was  by  his  bedside. Pointing to 
the  dog,  I  inquired  his  name. He  told  me  he  
was  called  Fido. Is  Fido his  Christian  name or  
his surname  ? I asked. Oh, that is just his name, 
he  said. Do  you  mean  that  is just his  Christian  
name  ? Can I  call  him  Fido  X  ? I  continued.  
Never,  came  the  emphatic  reply. But  he  fives  
in  your family,  I  protested.  Why don't  you  call  
him Fido  X  ? Then, turning  to two of  his  
daughters. I asked. Are your daughters not 
called  Miss X  ?  Yes ! Well  then,  why  cannot  I  
call  your  dog  Master  X  ?  The  Doctor  laughed,  
and  I  went  on  : Your  daughters  were  born into 
your  family  and  they  bear  your  name  because  
you have communicated  your life to them. Your 
dog  may  be.  an  intelligent dog,  a  well-behaved  
dog,  and altogether  a most  remarkable dog  ;  but  
the  question  is  not.  Is  he  a  good  dog  or  a  bad  
dog  ?  It  is  merely.  Is  he  a  dog  ? He  does  not  
need  to  be  bad  to  be  disqualified  from  being  a  

member of your family, he only needs to be a dog. 
Thesame principle applies to you in your relation-
ship to God. The question is not whether you are a 
bad man or a good man more or less, but just. Are 
you  a  man  ? I f your  life  is  on  the  lower  plane  
than  that  of  the  life  of  God,  then  you  cannot  
belong  to  the  Divine  family. Throughout your 
hie  your  one  aim in  preaching has  been  to  turn  
bad men  into  good  men  ; but  men,  as  such,  
whether  good or bad, can have  no  vital relation-
ship  with God. Our  only  hope  as  men  is  to  
receive  the  Son  of  God.  and  His  life  in  us  will  
constitute us  sons  of  God. The  Doctor  saw  the  
92 Austins-Sparks.Net - AWAT Volume 19 - Searchable
truth  and that day he became a member of God's 
family by receiving the Sonof God into bis heart . 
What  we to-day  possess in Christ is more than 
Adam  lost. Adam  was  only  a  developed man, 
he  never possessed the  life  of  God ;  but  we  who  
receive  the  Son of  God not  only* receive  forgive-
ness  of  sins,  we  receive  the Divine  life  which  
was represented  by  the  tree  of  life. So  we  have  
something  Adam  never  had: we  possess  what  
he  missed. God is  bringing in  a  company  of  the  
redeemed who have nothing of Adam, and 
everything  of  Christ. Tbe  Divine  necessity  for  
the  Cross is  because  nothing  belonging  to Adam 
is  fit  for  glory  : nothing  belonging to  the  old  
creation can  enter into the new. The Cross 
must  cut  deeply,  cutting  off  all  that  belongs  to  
the  old  life,  and  resurrection  must  bring  in all 
that  is  necessarv  for  the  new  life. Evervthing 
must  go  till  we  can truly say*, " I  can of my-self 
do  nothing  ".  
God  is  bringing  many sons  to  glory. That  is  
what  He is after. He wants  sons,  and He  wants  
all  His sous in glory. But how  can He bring this 
about  ? " I t  became him,  for whom are  all  
things, and  through whom are  all  things, in  
bringing many sons to  glory, to  make the author 
of their salvation perfect through sufferings. 
For  both  he  that  sanctifieth  and  they  that  are  
sanctified  are all of  one  ;  for  which cause  he  is  
not  ashamed  to  call them  brethren*'.  There  are  
two parties mentioned here, namely, "  Many  
sons  "  and  " T h e  Author  of  their  salvation "*: 
"He  that sanctifieth " and "They that are sancti-
fied  *'. But these  two  parties  are  " all of  one  ".  
The  Lord  Jesus  derived  His life  from  God, and 
we  derive  our  fife  from  God. He  is  from  God  
and  we are from  God :  so  we  are  " all of  one ".  
"  Of " in the  Greek means  " out of  ". The " First 
begotten Son  " and the  " Many sons " are all out 
of the  one  source. Do  you  realize that  we  have  
the  same  life  to-day  that  God has  ?  That  does  
not make  us  Divine,  but  it  makes  us  sons  of  
God. The  life  which  God  has  in  heaven  is  the  
same  as  the  life  we  have  here  on  earth :  there-
fore  we  can  five  a  fife  of  perfect  holiness,  for  it  
is  not  our own  life  which has  been  changed,  but  
the fife of  God that  has been imparted to  us.  Do  
you  notice  the  whole  question  of  sin  has  found  
no  mention  here  ?  Sin is  connected  with Adam, 
and even  when the sin  question  is settled,  we are 
only brought back  to the point where Adam 
was. But redemption has given us far more than 
Adam  ever had.  I t has made us partakers of  the  
life  of  God.